[Feature Flags] Use cases: kill switches, dynamic config, progressive rollouts (#36920)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/feature_flags/use_cases/progressive_rollouts.md

---
title: Progressive Rollouts and Canaries
description: Gradually roll out feature flags on a schedule with optional guardrail metrics for canary releases.
---

> **Progressive rollouts** release new functionality gradually by incrementing the percentage of subjects exposed to the feature over time. **Canaries** are progressive rollouts that monitor guardrail metrics and automatically pause or stop when they detect regressions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[**Progressive rollouts**](#progressive-rollouts) release new functionality gradually by incrementing the percentage of subjects exposed to the feature over time. [**Canaries**](#canaries) are progressive rollouts that monitor guardrail metrics and automatically pause or stop when they detect regressions.
```

### Start and control the rollout

1. **Enable** the flag in the environment so SDKs evaluate your targeting rules.
2. Click **Start Rollout** to kick off the progressive rollout.

{{< img src="getting_started/feature_flags/start-progressive-rollout.png" alt="Multistep progressive rollout display." style="width:100%;" >}}

After the rollout starts:

- Click **Pause Rollout** to stop progress temporarily.
- Click **Stop Rollout** to revert all progress on the rollout.

Monitor progress with evaluation tracking and configure notifications for rollout events.

## Canaries

A canary is a progressive rollout that includes **guardrail metrics**. Guardrail metrics measure standard key performance indicators (KPIs) such as error rate and long task count.

### How canaries work

When guardrail metrics are configured, the rollout monitors metrics in both groups:

- **Treatment**: Subjects receiving the variant you are rolling out
- **Control**: Subjects not receiving the treatment variant

When the canary detects a statistically significant change in any guardrail metric, it automatically **pauses** or **stops** the rollout.

### Configure a canary rollout

> 1. Create a progressive rollout targeting rule as described above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a progressive rollout targeting rule as described in the [Configure a progressive rollout](#configure-a-progressive-rollout) section.
```
